# Jennifer Sheng (jss8ny) iOS Final Project App
project-bobaholic created by GitHub Classroom

Bobaholic is the food tracking app for all things bubble tea related. For all boba lovers, Bobaholic is a way to keep track of all the bubble tea one has consumed, getting insights on all your tea consumption stats, keeping track of drink preferences, and even finding new spots for that bubble tea fix near you.

# Major Features/Screens:
The biggest feature/set of screens for the app is centered around the data of the drinks themselves. Labeled with the “Home” tab on the bottom bar, a user is able to add different bubble tea shops they want to keep track of as the first layer of tracking drinks as a whole. Once a shop has been created, the user is able to add drinks from that shop to a running list. Every drink information page includes the information the user has included for preferences of that drink as well as an order button.

The order button brings us to the next major feature of the app. Under the “Order” section of the tab bar, a user is able to see all the various drinks they have tracked through the aforementioned “Order” button. While this page is mainly meant to get a general overview of what were the previous drinks one has ordered, a user is able to click on each table entry, which will redirect them to a page with more information about the order and will let them alter the date of the order if a user would like.
Besides tracking the drinks themselves, the user is also able to get more insight about the orders they have made within a given year. On the “Stats” section of the tab bar, a user is able to get in real time how many drinks they have consumed and how much money they have spent in a single year. With this screen, the user is also able to change the year in order to see insights of drink stats from other years besides the current one as well.

The other two sections of the tab bar include “Map” and “Search” – these are both fairly self-explanatory. The “Map” screen allows a user to see their own location and search for locations near them as any map would. The purpose of this page is to allow the user to see which bubble tea places are near them without having to move to another app. Similarly with the “Search” bar, it is preset to be a Google page with search “boba near me” already pre-populated. This allows the user to not only quickly discover potentially new bubble tea shops near them but also allows the user to interact with Google in general with the intention of allowing them to quickly look up menus from stores they like as well.

# Lessons Learned:
The two main takeaways I have from building this app is that there is no one way to build an app and that simple things you think will be intuitively built into certain functions or fragments are not. For the first point, this is to emphasize the various ways a developer might tackle either an idea or a problem that comes up. There are so many different ways a developer can implement even the simplest of functions which is good because that means that you are not limited to very specific ways of designing and developing any one app. However with such freedom, there were often times while in the development process where I would have a single issue that I would be trying to resolve and would find many different solutions to how the problem could be solved. With each varying solution, there would be different things I had to make sure the app I was currently building would be compatible with as well as some solutions that I really preferred but would require much configuration and pivoting from what I was currently focusing on. I found myself trying to debug many code snippets I would be adding into different files, many of them unfortunately leading to large errors that seemed confusing and irrelevant as well as some that seemed to not make any difference to what I was trying to fix. This really emphasized to me the importance of being able to pick out solutions that are actually useful.

Besides trying to morph various implementations with my project, once I had built a large majority of the app and it was working quite well on the simulator on my computer, I decided to get a better feel of the functionalities and tested the app on my phone. When this occurred, I found myself having to tackle a whole new set of concerns from keyboard placements and views being covered for one reason or another. This goes toward my second lesson learned about user’s intuition versus a programmer’s standpoint. As a user who has interacted with various apps and sites myself, it is easy to fall into the trap of believing certain things like a keyboard getting dismissed is already integrated into the OS of a system and not something you would have to figure out how to handle. When I was testing on the phone, it became more apparent than ever that many functions a user typically will take for granted is one that a programmer took meticulous time to ensure works the way that users want and even expect it to. By seeing the lack of some of these expected functions when I first ran my app on my phone, it made me much more aware not only about the fixes I would eventually need to address in my own app but moreover had me sleuthing other sites and apps I typically use to see how other companies found real world workarounds to the issues I was facing. Overall, this experience made me more critical with the apps I consistently use and notice how functionalities are implemented in them. It also gave me a greater appreciation of all the small but important “recall over recognition” UX features that developers ingrain into apps and how the attention to such details really adds to the positive experience of using an app.
